>> SEAN STONE: In the
beginning was the word.
Let's enter the Buzzsaw.
[THEME MUSIC]
Welcome to Buzzsaw, where we
cut through the mainstream
narrative to explore
the hidden truths.
I'm your host Sean
Stone, and with me today
is Eric Rankin,
one of the leading
researchers in sonic geometry.
He's written a best-selling
novel called "The Aquarians"
and he's worked with some of
the world's leading physicists,
mathematicians, and
audio engineers.
Today he works with
us on revealing
the messages of sonic geometry.
So I suppose I have to
start by asking you,
what is sonic geometry?
>> ERIC RANKIN: You know,
it's a simple thing.
A lot of people have
been doing research.
And I know Michael
Tellinger's been on this show,
on this station.
And they reference geometry
and frequency maybe
in the same sentence.
But up until I did my
work four years ago,
no one had said,
why don't we play
the numbers of geometry, meaning
the sum totals of their angles,
as frequency?
And when I did that, something
really surprising came out.
It produced harmonics.
Not just harmonics,
but what we call
the most beautiful harmonics
in music is a major chord.
Sort of the la, la, la.
And I'm like, wow, geometry
plays a major chord.
I ran to my computer
and I was like,
I got to hear more of this.
I got to search YouTube videos.
I got to look it up.
I couldn't find a single thing.
And I'm like, this is impossible
that this would not be known,
something profound to me that
geometry reveals harmonics.
And when we say
the word harmony,
we're not just
talking about music.
We're talking about a
harmonious system, things
communicating with themselves
in a harmonious way
or living together harmoniously.
So it was a big thing for me.
>> SEAN: Your research began,
was it because of your work
with dolphins?
Or how did you end up just
making these discoveries?
>> RANKIN: Yeah, my interest in
frequency primarily did start
with dolphins.
I grew up in the boating
industry, the yachting
industry.
I was out in the water a lot
and encountering dolphins.
Anybody that's been in
the water with dolphins
understands there's something
really going on there,
an intelligence behind the eye.
Their brains are
bigger than ours.
And as they engage,
I just wanted
to learn more about them.
And they are truly
masters of frequency.
Dolphins and whales
have mechanics,
physiological
mechanics, that we don't
have to create ultrasound.
In fact, we learned
ultrasound from dolphins.
When a woman goes and gets an
ultrasound of an unborn fetus,
that's dolphin technology of
making pictures out of sound.
So in some way,
that's the beginning
of sonic geometry or sonic form.
And now it's become
more and more advanced.
And we're just learning.
Every day now we're
learning more what sound is.
Tesla's the first
guy that I know
of that said, if you
want to understand
the secrets of the universe,
think of energy, frequency,
vibration.
>> SEAN: Mm-hmm.
In fact, I was going to
ask you about that later.
But what we'll get
into first, though,
is this in terms of the
notion of sonic and geometry.
It really reminds me of Masonry.
Because obviously the Masons
are very much into this notion
of geometry.
They were said to be the master
builders in terms of their lore
and Masonic itself
indicates, is there
a sort of a sonic nature to
their understanding of how
to construct geometry?
>> RANKIN: Interesting.
I've never thought
of that in my life
and I'm very familiar, to
the depths that a exterior
person like me wanting to
learn about Freemasonry,
there is a secret
element to freemasonry.
But just the word
sonic, Masonic,
would be in there,
quite possibly.
I tend to believe that
the Masons are holders
of information, that they knew
the importance of geometrics,
knew that there was lots of,
just like Pythagoras did,
knew that there was a lot
of information contained
in every single geometric shape.
And maybe you're just keeping
that information alive
for us to catch up to.
That's what I feel
is really happening
in one way or another.
We are catching up
to the information
that our ancestors
might have known.
>> SEAN: Right.
Well, given your research into
the notion of sonic geometry
and study of ancient
structures, for example,
would that indicate that
these were constructed
along certain patterns
that indicated
sacred geometry, for example?
>> RANKIN: Absolutely.
>> SEAN: What is the correlation
between sonic geometry
and sacred geometry?
>> RANKIN: Big.
There's a big relationship.
Because geometric
form, primarily,
when we think of geometry, most
of us think in straight lines.
All of the platonic
solids, which
are the foundational building
blocks of nature and things,
are straight line geometry.
And yet nature doesn't use
straight lines very often.
They use curved lines.
And curve is what
frequency it looks like.
So if you start,
there's an artist
named Michael Evans who's been
holding this image of a seed
pod geometry.
And actually, your logo,
Gaia's logo, of the core,
of the flower of life,
the seed of life,
has tons of
information in there.
And I think what
it has always been,
much like in the
movie "Contact" where
we were receiving information
and we couldn't decipher it
because we wanted
to make it flat,
as soon as it became
dimensional, we understand it.
And I really think that that
template of sacred geometry
is informing a three
dimensional, four
dimensional structure that
is, if Buckminster Fuller was
correct, is the core
essence of everything.
It's like the nature of
nature is hexagonal or 60
degrees of arc.
Arc, of course, being in
that sacred geometry flower.
And that's where
we're moving is we're
seeing the similarities
between the form of frequency
and the form of geometry.
And sacred geometry is
beautiful because it has arc
built into it.
>> SEAN: So would sonic geometry
correlate to, for example,
what's called the music of the
spheres and the correlation
of various planets
within solar systems?
They have a certain
distance, there's
a certain frequency of
patterns and vibration.
So is this essentially
what sonic geometry
is about is trying to decipher
the essential correlations that
exist within nature?
>> RANKIN: Absolutely.
I haven't gone down
the path of-- it
was Pythagoras who
came up with that term,
the music of the spheres.
And he was referring to
the patterns of planets
orbiting the sun
and thinking there
was information revealed there.
My work has just more
or less been, like
what you referenced, systemic.
That there is a
system to nature.
The way a seed grows and
it contains the information
how to become whatever
unique plant it is
or how we become unique.
That informational field,
there's physicists now
that believe there is a field
of information all around us
all the time.
And they sort of draw
this as a toroidal field.
Earth has a toroidal field
like a magnetic field
and it has a
zero-point and it has
maybe even a black hole at the
bottom of it and sprouts again,
that all of nature has that.
And that sacred
geometry informs that.
Because right in the middle of
the flower of life, your logo,
we start growing out.
And then if you follow those
circles, it comes back in.
So we're talking about
something so deep revealing.
And there is frequency
related to it.
Like just a circle
itself, if we take
a circle is 360 degrees,
which most people know,
you can play 360 cycles
per second and get a tone.
When it gets really
interesting is
overlaying other geometric
forms as number sequences
and frequencies
and realizing there
is harmonics built into
the structure of what
we call nature unfolding.
That's crazy.
>> SEAN: And what is the
fourth three two key?
>> RANKIN: Four three two is
quite the deep rabbit hole.
Sometimes it's called
Pythagorean tuning.
Because Pythagoras saw
the number four three two.
It can also be called
concert pitch tuning.
Which, we tune our
instruments, we
have to have a
singular note that we
tune all the other notes
in an instrument around.
Today it's 440.
If you go into a guitar
shop, music store,
and say I want a
tuner, somewhere on it,
it will say 440.
That means 440 vibrations
cycles happening
in the span of a second.
It hasn't always been that.
But for some reason, we have
always tuned their instruments
around the area of that note.
Pre World War II-ish
era, 1935, instruments
were detuned slightly.
And people think,
the conjecture is,
that they sounded better,
warmer and that we resonated.
Our bodies, something
about it, resonated more
with this 432 tuning.
Amazingly, right
when electronics
was able to make
music and recordings
available to the
masses, a decision
was made to let's tweak
tuning a little bit.
Beyond just the
tuning and what it
might mean to us
hearing as frequency,
there's a lot of numerical
information in a tuning grid.
Every tone has its number
correlation to frequency.
And when you are in
432, tons of numbers
come out that are
illogically there.
The diameter of the sun,
the diameter of the moon.
Buckminster Fuller's numbers.
These correlative pieces of
information that you would not
expect to find are there.
So if you were, I'm not
going to say Illuminati,
but if you were
someone realizing
that there is information
in this tuning grid,
all you'd to do is
tweak it a little bit.
The mass public will
never know and yet you
held on to the information
and nobody else had it.
And I'm not a
conspiracy theorist,
but I do think it's interesting
that the moment we were
able to put music out
to the masses, it got
changed right about
that time frame.
>> SEAN: Right.
In fact, the Nazis, I
think, were the first ones
to adopt that shift
from 432 to 440 hertz.
>> RANKIN: Definitely involved.
>> SEAN: [INAUDIBLE]
>> RANKIN: Because it became
an international standard.
Before that,
different countries,
because people weren't traveling
around much before the 1920s
or so, there had to become
an international standard.
So someone playing a tuba here
would take his tuba to Europe
and it'd still be in tune.
So it's interesting.
>> SEAN: Obviously we know
that water has been affected
by sound, vibration, music
affects the structure of water
molecules, so it obviously
affects our very nature.
How can music or
sound be weaponized,
as biblical accounts of the
fall the walls of Jericho,
for example?
>> RANKIN: That is
a great example.
They said in that
biblical verse,
there is nothing but sound.
They walked around Jericho
blowing trumpets for days.
And at some point,
there was just fatigue
and the walls collapsed.
Sound is everything.
Sound is not only the creation.
Sound is potentially the
destruction of things.
Entropy and frequency,
where frequency waves just
either lose their natural
pattern or decay, which sound
eventually does decay,
could be literal decay
of material matter.
So it's no conjecture to say
could frequency not only be
the creation of matter, but
the destruction of matter?
And if you understood it, you
could be possessing something
very powerful for sure.
>> SEAN: So in terms
of your research,
do we believe that sound
can be utilized for healing?
Even sacred geometry or certain
sonic geometry locations
that, in the past,
for example, people
said the pyramids, for
example, held within them
this tremendous healing
function because of the geometry
of their construction.
And potentially then
utilizing whether it
be music and sound
or other material
to create a certain harmony.
Do we believe that
this can be the future
of healing for human beings?
>> RANKIN: Not only the
future, but I think the past.
I mean, I think we
are not in access
of the technology
that people building
the Great Pyramid of
Giza, or these frequency
machines that even Egyptologists
now are saying they weren't
ever tombs, they were
machines of some sort,
and they were machines that
used frequency and possibly were
built by utilizing
frequency of some sort.
It's a fundamental thing
when we talk about frequency
and pure harmonics.
That's what we
should probably cover
is that when you overlay
the tones of geometry,
you get perfect
harmonics, a numerically
perfect, mathematically
perfect formula
to reveal perfect harmonics.
Not only in this new tuning
system that we have of 440,
we have, in our infinite
wisdom as human beings,
we have tweaked every
note around them.
We have fractionalized them.
It's a process called
equal temperament.
So they sound good
enough to our ear,
but a frequency is supposed
to be doing something
else to us and for us.
There's a good chance that
out of seven billion people
on this planet, no
one has ever heard
numerically perfect harmonics.
If I were to play you a
sine waves a D major chord
that you would sit down
at a piano and play, when
it's pure frequency, you
hear this weird warble.
It's almost annoying.
When you play it
as pure frequency,
mathematically perfect, it
just hums perfectly along.
So it's very possible that music
today, as we have constructed
it to be, is agitating us.
Even meditative music and
calming music deep at its core
is actually agitating us.
>> SEAN: So let's go to
these ancient structures.
You mentioned the Giza pyramids.
How do we know
that sonic geometry
is part of their construction?
What are the ratios
and major numbers
involved that are
evidence of it?
>> RANKIN: So what
really comes through,
how we think that this is
probably awareness of this
system of frequency and
vibration and harmonics,
is the numbers revealed.
We can't prove yet
what is happening
in the Great Pyramid of Giza.
Although it's interesting.
Musicians have gone in there.
Steve Halpern is a
well-known musician.
He went in there and
just banged his hand
against what's called
the sarcophagus
in the Great Pyramid of Giza.
And the pyramid
itself made a tone
that ended up being 432 cycles.
It's incredible
how this might be.
But it's in the structures
and the mythologies
and the stories and the temples
all over the world, including
sacred geometry, that are giving
us number sequences as if they
knew before they could logically
know how frequency manifested
in numbers, vibration cycles
per any measurement of time.
None of that could
have been known,
and yet we have old documents.
We have one of the oldest
documents ever written,
the Sumerian king's
list, written
in the world's first
written language, cuneiform.
And it gives us in
order to 288, 360, 432.
It gives us a numerically
perfect harmonic chord
as revealed by geometric
forms or as revealed
by a natural growth pattern
like the Fibonacci sequence.
It is all around us.
Literally it's like "The
Matrix" where the matrix
was scary in the movie.
But we have this sense that
there is an order and a beauty
and the harmonic nature
of everything around us.
And it's true.
But instead of being
something scary and dark,
it is beautiful and
engineered and designed.
And I don't know if you
want to use the word God,
but there is an
intelligence to it.
And physicists like
Nassim Haramein
would be a great
example of saying
there's got to be an overlying
intelligence behind everything.
That energy is, as
it spins like this,
every time it goes into
itself and out again,
is going out into the
informational field
and coming back and learning
more and more and more
with each pass, almost.
I mean, this has been a
rabbit hole of four years
that I have gone down.
I don't have a
physics degree, so
that I sit on roundtable
discussions and brain trusts
with people that have Stephen
Hawking on their speed dial
and can talk about these
things blows my mind.
But there is a missing
piece of the puzzle.
And I think it almost had
to be an outsider like me
with some musical
background, some science
background, some interest,
and follow through and see
that there are all these
elements that want to click
and they click
beautifully together.
You don't have to massage them.
You don't have to ask
somebody to believe it.
They just do this
in a beautiful way.
And that's what I talk
about all the time.
That's what I lecture
about in mostly California
is this amazing how nature
is revealing truly harmonics.
>> SEAN: Right.
Well in terms of you mentioned
the Sumerian King's list
and you mentioned
outside intelligence.
And that does bring
us to the question
that obviously many people
have wondered about,
which is this notion
of in the Bible
it's God, in the Sumerian
texts they're Annunaki,
but some kind of alien
beings that do give us
knowledge and help us in the
construction of these sites
and perhaps in knowing
these sacred numbers
and this sacred geometry
and the sonic reality,
let's say, underlying
our experience.
What evidence do we
have that there could
be some alien involvement?
>> RANKIN: The information
is so big that it's almost
the elephant in the room.
And I didn't start out as an
ancient alien theorist at all.
I became aware of this
co-relational aspect
of geometry and frequency.
And it led me down a
path that guided me
to we all know a
circle is 360 degrees.
Why is it 360 degrees?
It could be anything.
Why do we count
certain things the way
we do, by factors of 12s or 60s?
12 months a year, 60
seconds to a minute,
60 minutes to an hour.
That all came from
one place in one time.
And the story of how the
world got its first written
language, a unique math
system that we still
use today that is the basis
of geometry, and 60 degrees,
meaning the Gaiam circle
is 60 degrees of arc.
You don't need a circle
to build sacred geometry.
You need to know that it's
1/6 of a circle that's
really informing it.
The first wheeled
and axled vehicle.
The first pyramid structure.
The first sailboat.
The first pottery wheel.
The first loomed weaved fabric.
All that stuff happened
in one place in one time
and the people wrote in
cuneiform, this first written
language.
And we got to wonder, how in one
place in one moment in history
did we make these not
advances in technologies,
the arrival of technology
that we are just improving on?
We're still driving around in
wheeled and axled vehicles.
And the people of the day
said, we were visited.
This intelligence that had
more information than we do
shared it with us and shared it
in ways that we could factor.
And they gave us
a counting system
that is not base 10,
which would make sense
since we have 10 fingers.
It was counting up
to 12 on one hand
and then holding it five times
on the other hand to get to 60.
So there's 12.
12, 24, 36, 48, 60.
And it's almost
like they gave us
a little time released
pill of information
that we could work with
back then and carry
6,000 years into the future and
realize it's still holding up.
Leonardo da Vinci
saw sacred geometry
in three dimensions
500 years ago.
It's almost his
most relevant work.
It was just sketches on paper.
But his other
inventions were limited
to the building
materials at hand
or the day, wood and
rudimentary metals.
But we see that he saw
this same geometric form
in 60 degrees of
arc, understanding
there is something there,
something latent hidden
in our awareness.
And this was hinted at and
actually provided to us
by these on Annunaki visitors.
So did they come in
ships or was just
downloads of
information, visions?
This idea that heavenly visitors
came to us, it's in the Bible.
Heavenly visitors came to us.
They mated with
our earthly women.
We call them the
Nephilim in the Bible.
But these stories
are there giving us
and you start the show
with in the beginning
there was the word, almost
meaning like in the beginning
it was sound that started
everything into being.
That's a logical thing to say.
Any physicist would say yes.
>> SEAN: And what
do we make, then,
of the Mayan disappearance?
Could that be reflective of
the knowledge and the awareness
that they were given or
downloaded or achieved
that may have contributed to the
disappearance of that culture?
>> RANKIN: I think
any disappearance,
including our potential
disappearance,
is having the awareness and
acting out of accordance with
it.
So whether it was the
Egyptians or the Romans
or the Greeks or the
Mayans or possibly us.
Neil deGrasse Tyson says if
a visiting culture came down
in our planet, their
field report would say,
they're the species that knew
one thing and did another.
So for a while, we seem to
work with the information
and then we go, we
got it from here.
We'll start our own way.
So whether it's tuning
our instruments musically
or building a certain way or
whatever it is how we manage,
we seem to take
ourselves off the path,
and that's when we fail.
There's no reason
that we had to fail.
But I think it's our own
smugness, our own ego,
that gets in there.
It's like we've become the gods.
We'll do it our way.
And we're not.
We should be participating
in the grand system.
>> SEAN: Well certainly the
Mayans predicted some sort
of end of an age and coming
new age and this great year
concept.
So where do we fit
in this great year?
What does it mean for
where we are today?
>> RANKIN: Well, it's
fascinating that the Mayans
came up with this end
of the calendar day,
which my book was a lot about.
It was about the
December 21, 2012
end date, which the Mayans never
saw as the end of the world.
It was like an odometer clicking
over to a new age of awareness.
Well, fascinating
that if they wrote
that 900 years ago
without seeing anything
where we went digitally
or information
age, that right in that window,
if you bracket December 21,
2012 till 10 years before
and 10 years after,
we are talking about a
profound shift in the way we
access information,
share information,
are becoming aware
of certain aspects.
I mean, a show like this where
it's not run by a mainstream
media conglomerate.
It's people that want to
dive deeper into some truths
and have a logical conversation
about certain things.
There's a growing
number every day.
For all of the fear
and the negative stuff
going on in the
planet, there are
people that just
almost wake up and go,
there's something way deeper
going on here and I feel it.
I don't know how to
access it, but I feel it.
And maybe even just seeing
images like the flower of life
is a trigger point.
And we go, I got to
learn more about this.
>> SEAN: And towards that
end, I really wonder,
does perhaps surrounding
ourselves with sacred geometry,
does being immersed
within sonic geometry,
does that potentially activate
our interaction with alien
entities, for example?
>> RANKIN: Well, here's the
thing that I think is quite
possible what perfect
harmonics may do.
Because perfect
harmonics are also
revealed by the
Fibonacci growth cycle.
And that happens to
reveal either anything
from as small as a snail
shell to our ear design
to our hand design, this
spiral, to a galaxy.
This spiraling design
is fundamental in much
of the creation of what
we know to be creation.
All things, whether it's life
forms or stars or planets.
And that reveals a certain
set of frequencies.
We happen to have another
Fibonacci organ in our body
and it's this gland that
some people have heard of,
the pineal gland.
It's dead center
in our brain, right
behind what some cultures
have seen as a third eye.
Some certain people, like
Alex Grey, artists or people
that go on plant medicine
journeys, ayahuasca,
or mushrooms.
And they talk
about seeing a grid
or seeing deeper into the
structure of what nature really
is.
How much sense does it make that
numerically perfect Fibonacci,
let's call them, harmonics are
passing through your Fibonacci
ear canal and accessing your
Fibonacci organ in your brain
to help you see, yes?
Truly, it's almost, again, like
a time released pill of sorts.
Information that if you get it
right, the rewards are huge.
You're going to get
to see the matrix
and see how you
participate in it
and see how you are
either a healthy cell
in the whole system
of things or how,
in many ways, what we are
is kind of cancerous cells
to the healthy system
of life on this planet.
>> SEAN: You mentioned
earlier the Tesla quote,
which is wonderful, about how we
should think about the reality
in terms of energy,
frequency, and vibration.
So how can our understanding
of sonic geometry
be used potentially
to broadcast energy,
for example, as I know Tesla
wanted to do and to transform
our reality?
>> RANKIN: My guess is that
where we're going to see
the biggest scientific
breakthroughs will be
in the form of ultrasound.
That means we can't hear it.
But the guideposts,
the number sequences
that have been left behind
by our ancestors and maybe
these sky visitors
at time, happen
to be in the audible range.
It's actually quite
phenomenal that geometry,
as it was given to us,
Sumerian based 60 geometry,
is in the low hundreds.
200, 300 400, up to
about low thousands.
We can hear comfortably.
That's like sitting
down at a keyboard
and following this
three octaves right
in the middle of the keyboard.
All these number sequences,
Joseph Campbell encountered
432, this number so often in his
mystical studies of mythologies
and the hero's journey and all
these things, four three two
came up.
Four three two
just happens to be
right in the middle
of this system.
But I think what they
are are guideposts.
We hear them.
We're affirmed that they're
correct because they
sound beautiful to us.
But I think octaving them up,
meaning doubling, next higher
frequency, doubling
again until we're
in ultrasound,
which is doubling,
doubling, doubling
maybe 10, 20 times
until you're in the
tens of thousands
of frequencies, which is where
we can start vibrating things
apart, where dolphins can
create 3D holographic picture
languages.
But if you start wrong
and keep doubling,
you're way wrong by the time
you've doubled up 20 times.
So I think what these
frequencies are actually
guiding us to are like
guideposts to our ears,
to our consciousness, where
we can play them as music.
But what we're
supposed to be doing
in the experimental
realm, in the science,
is in the ultrasonic realm.
And we're already talking
about levitating things
with sound we can do.
We had an amazing lab
session with cymatics.
I don't know if anybody's
ever talked about where
sound reveals certain patterns.
And when we played that ancient
set of frequencies, 280, 360,
432, we got something
that we had never
seen in cymatic research that
looked like a flower of almost
like a gas bloom.
It's incredible, really.
The scientists that we
were working with was like,
I have not seen this before.
So it's almost informing us
yes, these frequencies matter.
Energy, possibly.
All these different things.
But my guess is in the
realm of ultrasound.
But if we get it wrong and keep
doubling, we will be way wrong.
>> SEAN: So you mentioned
zero-point energy earlier.
I mean, what does that mean
exactly and is that something
that we should look to
achieve towards our energy's
sustainability in the future?
>> RANKIN: Zero-point energy is
the fundamental building block.
I mean, it sounds
complicated, but everybody
knows what an atom looks like.
It has that little
dot in the middle
and we see these
rings going around it.
That's a little
zero-point energy field.
There's an idea now in physics
that that zero-point phenomenon
is everything.
From our chakra
system, a lot of people
have seen that we
have this, it's
called the toroidal field,
where right in the middle of us
is this energy system.
And it comes out and then it
comes back and loops into us.
That's what informs this
spiraling shape all the way out
to the galactic level.
So it's really important
that we get that information
correct and understand it.
But it's that energy
has a core point
and it wants to be its own
little perpetual motion energy
machine.
The glass here, this
was sand at one point.
The atoms that made it sand
are still those same atoms.
They're reformed
and restructured,
but they're the same little
atomic zero-point energy fields
running a long, long time.
This glass would last hundreds
of thousands of years.
If it weren't broken,
this glass would last.
So that same little energy
thing, that little energy
module, is doing its thing.
If we could harness that and
make our own zero-point energy
devices, we're talking
about free energy.
And that's what Tesla
was talking about.
And that's why he
got kind of shut down
is he was financed by JP
Morgan and Westinghouse.
They thought it was
great until he said,
this could be free
without wires.
And they're like, well where
do we make money in that?
And they pulled
all his financing
and he ended up dying
penniless in New York.
>> SEAN: So what it seems to
me is that we're saying is
ultimately our reality
is very much dictated
by the geometries, the
sonic vibrations frequencies
of music, of
language, of verbiage,
of media that surrounds
us in our consciousness.
And right now it seems that
our world has very much
been controlled by
people that want
to use this grid matrix
for purposes of control,
empowerment, enslavement.
But if we can utilize the
teachings of the ancients
and the notion of harmonics,
of zero-point energy,
of the idea of vortical,
cyclical energy,
we can actually work
to sort of re-balance
our system of
ecology, of ourselves,
and our relationship
to each other,
and our power structures.
>> RANKIN: Yeah.
And I don't want to
only honor the idea
that there have been a few that
are aware of this information
and are lording it,
keeping it to themselves,
and keeping us in the dark.
It could just as easily,
and probably more likely be,
we just drifted off and
away from the information
on our own devices
in our own ignorance,
like falling asleep or
becoming amnesiac a bit.
That information was there.
It does powerful things.
And for whatever reason, we
still drifted away from it.
So if someone's into
this information,
there's definitely
been societies
that are aware of geometry
and the power of it,
what it may reveal, for sure.
But are they intentionally
holding it away from us,
depriving us of it?
Or are they maybe
even holding it for us
until we're ready for it again?
I don't really know.
But I do know that we
are functioning out
of a state of harmonics.
Pythagoras 2,000,
2,500 years ago,
he understood numerically
perfect harmonics.
He divided strings
into segments.
And they were
mathematical formulas
and what he would have heard
would have been mathematically
perfect.
If we had built from that and
never let this string deviate
from what he first saw,
we would be way far ahead
of where we are now.
But we didn't do that.
We started making musical
instruments more complicated
and having to fudge notes so
they, in just music alone,
sounded OK.
And what frequency
does, say frequency
does all these things, music
is this little band right here.
And there's an audio
engineer and says
of all the things
frequency does,
music is the least important.
Yet it's what we
surround ourselves with.
I mean, you cannot
escape music anymore.
Imagine going back 100 years.
The only music
you ever heard was
music that was performed,
either by you or somebody else.
There weren't replays and
it wasn't surrounding you
all the time.
So now we're potentially
in this field,
surrounding ourselves
with music that
is agitating us because it is
not pure tone, pure harmonic.
And hopefully the work that I'm
doing with some amazing people
that are seeing this as well
is going to kind of-- there's
a big move of turning
music back to 432 tuning.
That is about a halfway step.
It doesn't get away from
the fractionalized tuning
of all the other notes.
But at least we do get to hear
that 432 and its octaves, down
as 216, up is 864,
down again is 108.
Here's a perfect
example of how humanity
has been guided to
these number sequences
that are pointing the
direction to frequency.
108 In Hindu religions,
mantra and mudras,
are repeated 108 times.
Mala necklaces.
Why?
They don't really
have an answer for it.
They're just holding this
space, this awareness of 108.
Well 108 octave up is 216.
Octave up again, it's 432.
It's like we are programmed
a bit with this information
knowing that it's
important and how
it's important is frequency.
And beyond frequency is harmony.
How do they blend?
And we've been programmed
for that as well.
When you go to a movie and
you hear a major chord,
you know that everything's
going right in that movie.
They're getting back together.
Things are optimistic.
When you hear a minor
chord, danger is afoot.
That's a bit of
programming for us
to associate meaning to
combinations of tones.
>> SEAN: Absolutely.
Well, thank you so much
for joining me today, Eric.
I really appreciate your
insights and your time.
>> RANKIN: Thanks Sean.
>> SEAN: And there
you have it, folks.
Fascinating insights
from Eric Rankin.
You may not agree with or
believe everything said here
today, but I urge you to
check out his website,
sonicgeometry.com, as well
as his best-selling novel,
"The Aquarians."
Don't miss his international
radio show, Awakening Code.
Remember, the road to
truth is a perilous path
along the edge of the Buzzsaw.
I'm your host, Sean Stone,
and you are the revolution.